docs: add scalability report (#11760)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/scalability/scalability.rst

.. only:: not (epub or latex or html)

    WARNING: You are looking at unreleased Cilium documentation.
    Please use the official rendered version released here:
    https://docs.cilium.io

.. _scalability_guide:

*****************

> Scalability guide

Reviewer: This seems more like a scalability report than a scalability guide; it looks very useful for users to compare their setups against and see how Cilium works, what to measure etc. but at a glance it doesn't seem like a set of steps that users would follow to make their clusters scale better; it's more like a list of steps to reproduce the experiment and compare against this report.

*****************

This guide is intended for users planning to run Cilium on clusters with more
than 200 nodes in CRD mode (without a kvstore available). In our development
cycle we have deployed Cilium on large clusters and these were the options that
were suitable for our testing:

=====
Setup
=====

.. parsed-literal::
 helm template cilium \\
     --namespace kube-system \\
     --set global.endpointHealthChecking.enabled=false \\
     --set global.healthChecking.enabled=false \\
     --set global.ipam.mode=kubernetes \\
     --set global.k8sServiceHost=<KUBE-APISERVER-LB-IP-ADDRESS> \\
     --set global.k8sServicePort=<KUBE-APISERVER-LB-PORT-NUMBER> \\
     --set global.prometheus.enabled=true \\
     --set global.operatorPrometheus.enabled=true \\
   > cilium.yaml

* ``--set global.endpointHealthChecking.enabled=false`` and

>   ``--set global.healthChecking.enabled=false``: disables endpoint health

Reviewer 2: nit: disables => disable

>   checking entirely. However it is recommended that those features should be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  checking entirely. However it is recommended that those features be
```
Though `we recommend to enable those features` might be even better as it avoids passive voice and `that those`.

  enabled initially on a smaller cluster (3-10 nodes) where it can be used to

>   detect potential packet loss due firewall rules or hypervisor settings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  detect potential packet loss due to firewall rules or hypervisor settings.
```

* ``--set global.ipam.mode=kubernetes``: is set to ``"kubernetes"`` since our
  cloud provider has pod CIDR allocation enabled in ``kube-controller-manager``.

> * ``--set global.k8sServiceHost`` and ``--set global.k8sServicePort`` were set

Reviewer 3: Not colon for this one? Maybe remove colons after the other options? A colon right before a verb isn't strictly correct anyway.

  with the IP address of the loadbalancer that was in front of ``kube-apiserver``.
  This allows Cilium to not depend on kube-proxy to connect to ``kube-apiserver``.

* ``--set global.prometheus.enabled=true`` and

>   ``--set global.operatorPrometheus.enabled=true``: They were just set since we

Reviewer 3: for consistency:
```suggestion
  ``--set global.operatorPrometheus.enabled=true`` were just set because we
```
`since` sounds weird here but couldn't say why. In any case, you want to focus on reason so best to use `because`.

  had a Prometheus server probing for metrics in the entire cluster.

Our testing cluster consisted of 3 controller nodes and 1000 worker nodes.
We have followed the recommended settings from the
`official Kubernetes documentation <https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/best-practices/cluster-large/>`_

> documentation and we have provisioned our machines with the following settings:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and have provisioned our machines with the following settings:
```

* **Cloud provider**: Google Cloud

* **Controllers**: 3x n1-standard-32 (32vCPU, 120GB memory and 50GB SSD, kernel 5.4.0-1009-gcp)

* **Workers**: 1 pool of 1000x custom-2-4096 (2vCPU, 4GB memory and 10GB HDD, kernel 5.4.0-1009-gcp)

* **Metrics**: 1x n1-standard-32 (32vCPU, 120GB memory and 10GB HDD + 500GB HDD)
  this is a dedicated node for prometheus and grafana pods.

.. note::

>     All 3 controller nodes were behind a GCE Loadbalancer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    All 3 controller nodes were behind a GCE load balancer.
```

>     Each controller contained an ``etcd``, ``kube-apiserver``,

Reviewer 3: Unfortunately, I don't think we can have a single article for several words. Maybe dropping it would be enough?
```suggestion
    Each controller contained ``etcd``, ``kube-apiserver``,
```

    ``kube-controller-manager`` and ``kube-scheduler`` instances.

    The CPU, memory and disk size set for the workers might be different for

>     your use case, you might have pods that require more memory or CPU available

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    your use case. You might have pods that require more memory or CPU available
```

    so you should design your workers based on your requirements.

    During our testing we had to set the ``etcd`` option

>     ``quota-backend-bytes=17179869184`` as ``etcd`` failed once it reached around

Reviewer 3: `as` here could be `to` and might confuse the reader for a second. Maybe switch to `because`?
```suggestion
    ``quota-backend-bytes=17179869184`` because ``etcd`` failed once it reached around
```

    ``2GiB`` of allocated space.

    Since Cilium is capable to perform all functionalities provided by

>     ``kube-proxy`` we have provisioned our workers nodes without ``kube-proxy``.

Reviewer 2: suggestion:

We provisioned our worker nodes without ``kube-proxy`` since Cilium is capable of performing all functionalities provided by ``kube-proxy``. We created a load balancer in front of ``kube-apiserver``
to allow Cilium to access ``kube-apiserver`` without ``kube-proxy``,  and configured Cilium with the options ``--set global.k8sServiceHost=<KUBE-APISERVER-LB-IP-ADDRESS>`` and ``--set global.k8sServicePort=<KUBE-APISERVER-LB-PORT-NUMBER>``.

    Thus, as we are not running with ``kube-proxy`` enabled, Cilium cannot use
    the service IP address of ``kube-apiserver``, so we had to set the IP address
    of the LB in front of kube-apiserver with the options
    ``--set global.k8sServiceHost=<KUBE-APISERVER-LB-IP-ADDRESS>``
    and ``--set global.k8sServicePort=<KUBE-APISERVER-LB-PORT-NUMBER>``.

    Our ``DaemonSet`` ``updateStrategy`` had the ``maxUnavailable`` set to 250
    pods instead of 2, but this value highly depends on your requirements when

>     you are performing a rolling update of Cilium:

Reviewer 2: Cilium: => Cilium.

=====
Steps
=====

For our testing we have performed the following tasks and for each step we

> provide more details of our findings and expected behavior:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For each step we took, we provide more details below, with our findings and
expected behaviors.
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
1. Install Kubernetes v1.18.3 with EndpointSlice feature enabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To test the most up to date functionalities from Kubernetes and Cilium, we have

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To test the most up-to-date functionalities from Kubernetes and Cilium, we have
```
Compound adjective before the noun so takes dashes.

performed our testing with Kubernetes v1.18.3 and the EndpointSlice feature

> enabled which provides a better scalability;

Reviewer 3: Remove `a` because `scalability` isn't countable AFAIK and, unless you want to insist on that part of the sentence, remove the which+verb:
```suggestion
enabled to improve scalability.
```

Since Kubernetes requires an ``etcd`` cluster, we have deployed v3.4.9.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
2. Deploy Prometheus, Grafana and Cilium
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> We have used prometheus v2.18.1 and grafana v7.0.1 to retrieve and analyze

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have used Prometheus v2.18.1 and Grafana v7.0.1 to retrieve and analyze
```

We have used prometheus v2.18.1 and grafana v7.0.1 to retrieve and analyze

> ``etcd``, ``kube-apiserver``, ``cilium`` and ``cilium-operator`` metrics;

Reviewer 2: metrics; => metrics.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 3. Provision 2 workers nodes

Reviewer 2: Provision 2 worker nodes

This helped us to understand if our testing cluster was correctly provisioned
and all metrics were being gathered.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
4. Deploy 5 namespaces with 25 deployments on each namespace
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> * Each deployment had 1 replica each (125 pods in total).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Each deployment had 1 replica (125 pods in total).
```

> * To measure the resources **only** consumed by Cilium, all deployments used

Reviewer 3: `resources only consumed by Cilium` would be the resources that Cilium alone is consuming.
```suggestion
* To measure **only** the resources consumed by Cilium, all deployments used
```

>   the same base image ``k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.2``.

Reviewer 3: Is that well known enough that people will know what it does? Maybe worth adding a sentence to state that it doesn't do anything?

* Since we provision a small number of pods in our small cluster we are able to

>   understand the CPU usage of Cilium when a small number of pods is provisioned:

Reviewer 3: Let's not state the obvious:
```suggestion
* We provision a small number of pods in a small cluster to
  help understand the CPU usage of Cilium:
```
The `help` I added can also be dropped.

.. figure:: images/image_4_01.png

> The mark shows when the creation of 125 pods have started.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The mark shows when the creation of 125 pods started.
```

As expected, we can see a slight increase of the CPU usage on both

> cilium-agents running and in the cilium operator. The Cilium agents

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
running Cilium agents and in the Cilium operator. The agents
```

peaked at 6.8% CPU usage on a 2vCPU machine.

.. figure:: images/image_4_02.png

For the memory usage we have not seen a significant memory growth in the

> Cilium agent. On the BPF memory side we do see it increasing due the

Reviewer 3: Why does everyone hate commas?
```suggestion
For the memory usage, we have not seen a significant memory growth in the
Cilium agent. On the BPF memory side, we do see it increasing due to the
```

> initialization of some BPF maps for the pods that we have started.

Reviewer 3: Maybe?
```suggestion
initialization of some BPF maps for the new pods.
```

initialization of some BPF maps for the pods that we have started.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 5. Provision 998 new nodes (total 1000 nodes)

Reviewer 2: maybe:

Provision 998 additional worker nodes (total 1000 nodes)

.. figure:: images/image_5_01.png

The first mark represents the action of creating nodes, the second mark

> represents when 1000 Cilium pods were in ready state. It is expected that the

Reviewer 3: We can drop the verb here. If that sounds too weird, it might be best to use a semicolon between the two clauses since they are independent.
```suggestion
when 1000 Cilium pods were in ready state. It is expected that the
```

> CPU usage of Cilium increases since each Cilium agent receives events from

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
represents when 1000 Cilium pods were in ready state. The CPU usage increase
is expected since each Cilium agent receives events from
```

Kubernetes whenever a new node is provisioned in the cluster. Once all nodes

> were deployed the average CPU usage was on average 0.15% on a 2vCPU node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
were deployed the CPU usage was 0.15% on average on a 2vCPU node.
```

.. figure:: images/image_5_02.png

> As we have increased the number of nodes in the cluster to 1000 it is expected

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As we have increased the number of nodes in the cluster to 1000, it is expected
```

As we have increased the number of nodes in the cluster to 1000 it is expected
to see a small growth of the memory usage in all metrics. However, it is

> relevant to point out that **the number of nodes does not have a significant

Reviewer 2: maybe:

an increase in the number of nodes does not cause any significant increase in Cilium’s memory consumption

> dataplane.**

Reviewer 3: It's not obvious here that you want to insist on the fact that the memory increase should remain small. On a first read, it kind of sounds like the second sentence contradicts the first. Maybe quantifying that growth would help?
```suggestion
As we have increased the number of nodes in the cluster to 1000, the small
memory usage growth in all metrics is expected. It is however limited to a
few xxxbytes per node.
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
6. Deploy 25 more deployments on each namespace
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This will now bring us a total of
``5 namespaces * (25 old deployments + 25 new deployments)=250`` deployments in
the entire cluster.
We did not install 250 deployments from the start since we only had 2 nodes and

> that would create 125 pods on each worker node and accordingly with the

Reviewer 2: maybe:

We did not install 250 deployments from the start since we only had 2 nodes and that would create 125 pods on each worker node. According to the Kubernetes documentation the maximum recommended number of pods per node is 100.

documentation the maximum recommended number of pods per node is 100.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
7. Scale each deployment to 200 replicas (50000 pods in total)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Having 5 namespaces with 50 deployments means that we have 250 different unique
security identities. Having a low cardinality in the labels selected by Cilium

> helps the scalability of security identities in the cluster. By default, Cilium

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
helps scale the cluster. By default, Cilium
```

has a limit of 16k security identities, however this limit can be incremented by

> the user with ``bpf-policy-map-max`` in the Cilium ``ConfigMap``.

Reviewer 3: I don't think you can use `however` that way because it's a conjunctive adverb, not a conjunction.
```suggestion
has a limit of 16k security identities, but it can be increase with
``bpf-policy-map-max`` in the Cilium ``ConfigMap``.
```

.. figure:: images/image_7_01.png

The first mark represents the action of scaling up the deployments, the second

> mark represents when 50000 pods were in ready state.

Reviewer 3: Same as above:
```suggestion
mark when 50000 pods were in ready state.
```

* It is expected to see the CPU usage of Cilium increasing since each Cilium
  agent receives events from Kubernetes when a new pod is scheduled and started

>   in the node where that Cilium pod is running.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* It is expected to see the CPU usage of Cilium increase since, on each node,
  Cilium agents receive events from Kubernetes when a new pod is scheduled
  and started.
```

* The average CPU consumption of all Cilium agents was 3.38% on a 2vCPU machine.

>   At one given point, roughly around minute 15:23, one of those Cilium agents

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  At one point, roughly around minute 15:23, one of those Cilium agents
```

  picked 27.94% CPU usage.

* Cilium Operator had a stable 5% CPU consumption while the pods were being
  created.

.. figure:: images/image_7_02.png

> Similar to the behavior seen with increasing the number of worker nodes,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Similar to the behavior seen while increasing the number of worker nodes,
```

> Similar to the behavior seen with the growth number of nodes, increasing pods

Reviewer 2: maybe:

Similar to the behavior seen with increasing the number of worker nodes,

> increasing pods also increases Cilium memory consumption.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
increasing the number of pods also increases Cilium memory consumption.
```
Maybe it could be `adding new pods also ...` to avoid repetitions on `increase/increasing`?

> * As we increased the number of pods from 250 to 50000 we saw a max memory usage

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* As we increased the number of pods from 250 to 50000, we saw a maximum memory usage
```

  of 573MiB for one of the Cilium agents while the average was 438 MiB.
* For the BPF memory usage we saw a max usage of 462.7MiB

> * This means that each **Cilium agent memory increases 10.5KiB per pod created

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This means that each **Cilium agent's memory increased by 10.5KiB per new pod
```

  in the cluster.**

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
8. Deploy 250 policies for 1 namespace
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here we have created 125 L4 network policies and 125 L7 policies. Each policy
selected all pods on this namespace and was allowed to send traffic to another

> pod on this namespace. Each 250 policies differ on the chosen port. In the end

Reviewer 2: maybe something like:

Each of the 250 policies allows access to a disjoint set of ports.

        matchLabels:
          my-label: testing
      fromEndpoints:
        matchLabels:
          my-label: testing
      egress:
        - toPorts:
          - ports:
            - port: "[0-125]+80" // from 80 to 12580
              protocol: TCP
    ---
    apiVersion: "cilium.io/v2"
    kind: CiliumNetworkPolicy
    metadata:
      name: "l7-rule-#"
      namespace: "namespace-1"
    spec:
      endpointSelector:
        matchLabels:
          my-label: testing
      fromEndpoints:
        matchLabels:
          my-label: testing
      ingress:
      - toPorts:
        - ports:
          - port: '[126-250]+80' // from 12680 to 25080
            protocol: TCP
          rules:
            http:
            - method: GET
              path: "/path1$"
            - method: PUT
              path: "/path2$"
              headers:
              - 'X-My-Header: true'

.. figure:: images/image_8_01.png

In this case we saw one of the Cilium agents jumping to 100% CPU usage for 15
seconds while the average peak was 40% during a period of 90 seconds.

.. figure:: images/image_8_02.png

As expected, **increasing the number of policies does not have a significant

> impact in the memory usage of Cilium since the BPF policy maps have a constant

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
impact on the memory usage of Cilium since the BPF policy maps have a constant
```

size** once a pod is initialized.

.. figure:: images/image_8_03.png
.. figure:: images/image_8_04.png

The first mark represents the point in time when we ran ``kubectl create`` to
create the ``CiliumNetworkPolicies``. Since we created 250 policies sequentially
we cannot correctly derive the time between the creation of the 250th CNP and
the time the last endpoint had its policy enforced. In our examples we have
used 250 different CNP objects, to correctly measure the convergence time we
could have used a single CNP with multiple policy rules defined under the

> ``specs`` field (not ``spec``) for a CNP.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure I understand what you're trying to say here. Is that :point_down:  it?
```suggestion
create the ``CiliumNetworkPolicies``. Since we created the 250 policies
sequentially, we cannot properly compute the convergence time. To do that,
we could use a single CNP with multiple policy rules defined under the
``specs`` field (instead of the ``spec`` field).
```

> However we can see the time it took the last Cilium agent to increment its

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Nevertheless, we can see the time it took the last Cilium agent to increment its
```

Policy Revision, which is incremented individually on each Cilium agent every

> time time a CiliumNetworkPolicy (CNP) is received, between second ``15:45:44``

Reviewer 2: time time => time

and ``15:45:46`` and see when was the last time an Endpoint was regenerated by

> checking the 99th percentile of the "Endpoint regeneration time", we can see

Reviewer 3: Cannot be the same sentence.
```suggestion
checking the 99th percentile of the "Endpoint regeneration time". In this manner,
we can see
```

that it took less than 5s. We can also verify **the maximum time was less than

> ``600ms`` for an endpoint to have the policy enforced.**

Reviewer 4: Note that the ` ``600ms`` ` is not rendered correctly on the preview, most likely because it is nested inside the markup for bold text.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
9. Deploy 250 policies for CiliumClusterwideNetworkPolicies (CCNP)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The difference between these policies and the previous ones installed is that

> these ones select all pods in all namespaces. To recap, this means that we will

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
these select all pods in all namespaces. To recap, this means that we will
```

now have **250 different network policies selecting 10000 pods and 250 different
network policies selecting 50000 pods on a cluster with 1000 nodes.** Similarly
to the previous step we will deploy 125 L4 policies and another 125 L7 policies.

.. figure:: images/image_9_01.png
.. figure:: images/image_9_02.png

Similar to the creation of the previous 250 CNPs, there was also an increase in
CPU usage during the creation of the CCNPs. The CPU usage was similar even
though the policies were effectively selecting more pods.

.. figure:: images/image_9_03.png

> As all pods running in a node are selected by **all the 250 CCNPs created**, we

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As all pods running in a node are selected by **all 250 CCNPs created**, we
```

see an increase of the **Endpoint regeneration time** which **peaked a little
above 3s.**

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 10. "Accidentally" destroy 10000 pods

Reviewer 2: maybe better to use the term delete instead of destroy.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> In this step we have "accidentally" destroyed 10000 random pods. Kubernetes will

Reviewer 2: same here, destroyed => deleted

> then recreate 10000 new pods so it will help us understand what is the

Reviewer 2: what the convergence time is for all the network polices deployed.

> time is for all the network polices deployed.

Reviewer 3: Do you mean:
```suggestion
time is for all the deployed network polices.
```
or:
```suggestion
time is for all the network polices to be deployed.
```
?

.. figure:: images/image_10_01.png
.. figure:: images/image_10_02.png

* The first mark represents the point in time when pods were "deleted" and the

>   second mark represents the point in time 10k new pods finished to be

Reviewer 2: second mark represents the point in time Kubernetes finished recreating 10k pods.

>   second mark represents the point in time Kubernetes finished recreating 10k

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  second mark represents the point in time when Kubernetes finished recreating 10k
```

  pods.

* Besides the CPU usage slightly increasing while pods are being scheduled in

>   the cluster we did see some interesting data points in the BPF memory usage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the cluster, we did see some interesting data points in the BPF memory usage.
```

  As each endpoint can have one or more dedicated BPF maps, the BPF memory usage

>   is directly correlated with the number of pods running in a node. **If the

Reviewer 2: is directly proportional to the number of pods

  number of pods per node decreases so does the BPF memory usage.**

.. figure:: images/image_10_03.png

> Another interesting data point is the Endpoint regeneration time is "inexistent".

Reviewer 2: not clear what this sentence means. does this mean that the prometheus metric for endpoint regeneration was missing? maybe omit the first 2 sentences and say something like:

We inferred the time it took for all the endpoints to get regenerated by looking at the number of Cilium endpoints with the policy enforced over time.

at the number of Cilium endpoints with the policy enforced over time.
Luckily enough we had another metric that was showing how many Cilium endpoints
had policy being enforced:

.. figure:: images/image_10_04.png

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
11. Control plane metrics over the test run
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The focus of this test was to study the Cilium agent resource consumption at

> scale. However we also monitored some metrics of the control plane nodes such as

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scale. However, we also monitored some metrics of the control plane nodes such as
```

etcd metrics and CPU usage of the k8s-controllers and we present them in the
next figures.

.. figure:: images/image_11_01.png

Memory consumption of the 3 etcd instances during the entire scalability
testing.

.. figure:: images/image_11_02.png

> CPU Usage for the 3 controller nodes, average latency per request type in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CPU usage for the 3 controller nodes, average latency per request type in
```

the etcd cluster as well as the number of operations per second made to etcd.

.. figure:: images/image_11_03.png

All etcd metrics, from left to right, from top to bottom: database size,
disk sync duration, client traffic in, client traffic out, peer traffic in,

> peer traffic out.

Reviewer 3: I don't think that needs to be stated.

Author: It just to not left this image without a description.

> disk sync Duration, client traffic in, client traffic out, peer traffic in,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
disk sync duration, client traffic in, client traffic out, peer traffic in,
```

=============
Final Remarks
=============

> With this test we were able to have a better understanding of Cilium running

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These experiments helped us develop a better understanding of Cilium running
```

in a large cluster entirely in CRD mode and without depending on etcd. There is

> still some work to be done with regarding the memory footprint of BPF maps which

Reviewer 2: maybe remove "with"

be optimized even further as well as the memory footprint of the Cilium agent

> which we will address in the next Cilium version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
still some work to be done to optimize the memory footprint of BPF maps even
further, as well as reducing the memory footprint of the Cilium agent. We will
address those in the next Cilium version.
```

We can also determine that it is scalable to run Cilium in CRD mode on a cluster

> with more than 200 nodes. However it is worth to point out that more tests will

Reviewer 2: maybe:

However, it is worth pointing out that we need to run more tests to verify Cilium's behavior when it loses the connectivity with kube-apiserver, which can happen during a control plane upgrade for example.

more tests to verify Cilium's behavior when it loses the connectivity with

> ``kube-apiserver``, which can happen during a control plane upgrade for example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``kube-apiserver``, as can happen during a control plane upgrade for example.
```
